.TH TMOD\-CONTROL 1 "2026-03-29" "v2.6.0" "tModLoader Server Management"
.SH NAME
tmod\-control \- headless tModLoader dedicated server management toolkit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tmod\-control.sh
[\fB\-\-debug\fR]
[\fIcommand\fR]
[\fIsubcommand\fR]
[\fIargs\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tmod\-control.sh
is the central entry point for managing a headless tModLoader dedicated server.
With no arguments it launches the persistent Go TUI when a built binary or local
Go toolchain is available. Commands can also be passed directly for scripting
or automation.
.PP
All child scripts (backup, workshop, monitor, diagnostics) are invoked through
this hub and inherit any flags set here.
.PP
The Go control room can also load addon sections from
.IR Addons/*/addon.json ,
so extra command groups can be plugged into the UI without editing the built-in
action list.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Enable verbose logging. Exports
.B TMOD_DEBUG=1
to all child processes so INFO\-level messages are printed to the terminal in
addition to the log files. Without this flag only WARN, ERROR, and CRITICAL
messages are printed.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help ", " help
Print a usage summary and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Server control
.TP
.B start
Start the tModLoader server in a detached
.BR screen (1)
session.
.TP
.B stop
Gracefully stop the running server.
.TP
.B restart
Stop then start the server.
.TP
.B status
Print a quick status line: running state, uptime, player count, active world.
.TP
.B server start|stop|restart|status
Explicit form of the above shortcuts.
.SS Backup
.TP
.B backup
Run an automatic backup (worlds + configs). Equivalent to
.BR "backup auto" .
.TP
.B backup worlds
Back up world save files to
.IR Backups/Worlds/ .
.TP
.B backup configs
Back up configuration files to
.IR Backups/Configs/ .
.TP
.B backup full
Full backup of worlds, configs, and mods to
.IR Backups/Full/ .
.TP
.B backup list
List existing backups with sizes and timestamps.
.TP
.B backup restore
Interactive restore picker.
.TP
.B backup cleanup
Remove backups older than the configured retention period.
.SS Monitoring
.TP
.B monitor status
Show the current monitoring daemon status.
.TP
.B monitor start
Start the background health\-check monitor.
.TP
.B monitor logs
Tail the monitor log.
.SS Steam Workshop
.TP
.B workshop download
Download all mods listed in
.I Scripts/steam/mod_ids.txt
via SteamCMD.
.TP
.B workshop sync
Copy downloaded workshop mods into the server
.I Mods/
directory.
.TP
.B workshop list
List downloaded workshop mods with name and version.
.TP
.B workshop archive
Archive old mod versions, keeping only the latest.
.TP
.B workshop cleanup
Remove incomplete downloads and empty staging directories.
.TP
.B workshop status
Show workshop system configuration and SteamCMD path.
.TP
.B workshop init
Initialise the workshop system (create required files and directories).
.SS Mod load management
.TP
.B mods list
Show all installed mods with enabled/disabled state.
.TP
.B mods enable \fIname\fR
Enable a mod by name. Use
.B all
to enable every installed mod.
.TP
.B mods disable \fIname\fR
Disable a mod by name. Use
.B all
to disable every installed mod.
.TP
.B mods add [\-\-yes] \fIurl-or-id\fR
Add a Steam Workshop URL or numeric Workshop ID to
.IR Scripts/steam/mod_ids.txt .
.TP
.B mods ids
Show queued Workshop IDs or URLs from
.I Scripts/steam/mod_ids.txt
with resolved names when available.
.TP
.B mods clear [\-\-yes]
Clear queued Workshop IDs from
.IR Scripts/steam/mod_ids.txt .
.TP
.B mods pick
Open the interactive mod toggle picker.
.SS Utility
.TP
.B logs
Print the last 20 lines of the server log.
.TP
.B diagnostics
Run the full system diagnostic report (script status, paths, config, disk).
.TP
.B health
Run the comprehensive system health check summary.
.TP
.B maintenance
Run routine maintenance tasks (log rotation, backup cleanup).
.TP
.B emergency
Emergency shutdown — kills the server screen session immediately.
.TP
.B interactive
Launch the Go control room.
.TP
.B tui
Alias for the Go control room.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I Configs/serverconfig.txt
Main server configuration. Manages port, max players, world path, and
tmod\-scripts settings (steamcmd_path, log_max_size, log_keep_days).
Created from
.I Configs/serverconfig.example.txt
on first setup via
.BR "make setup" .
.TP
.I Scripts/steam/mod_ids.txt
Steam Workshop mod IDs — one numeric ID or Workshop URL per line. Lines
beginning with
.B #
are ignored. Created from
.I Scripts/steam/mod_ids.example.txt
on first setup. Gitignored (personal mod list).
.TP
.I Scripts/env.sh
Optional local environment overrides. Created from
.I Scripts/env.example.sh
on first setup and intended for values such as
.BR STEAM_USERNAME ", " STEAM_API_KEY ,
and webhook URLs.
.TP
.I Logs/
Script and server log files. Rotated automatically based on
.B log_max_size
and
.B log_keep_days
in
.IR serverconfig.txt .
.TP
.I Backups/
Automated backup storage. Subdirectories: Worlds/, Configs/, Full/.
.TP
.I Engine/
tModLoader binary files. Installed via GitHub release download or SteamCMD (gitignored).
.TP
.I Mods/
Installed .tmod files and enabled.json. Managed by the workshop and mods commands.
.TP
.I Addons/
Optional manifest-driven control-room extensions. Each addon can provide
.I addon.json
plus companion scripts under its own folder.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TMOD_DEBUG
Set to
.B 1
to enable verbose terminal output across all scripts. Equivalent to passing
.B \-\-debug
to
.BR tmod\-control.sh .
.TP
.B STEAM_USERNAME
Steam account username for Workshop downloads requiring login. Should be
exported from
.I Scripts/env.sh
or your shell profile — never stored in a tracked file.
.TP
.B STEAM_API_KEY
Steam Web API key used by
.BR tmod\-deps.sh .
Should be exported from
.I Scripts/env.sh
or your shell profile.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Open the persistent server console:
.B ./Scripts/hub/tmod-control.sh tui
.TP
Start the server with verbose output:
.B ./Scripts/hub/tmod-control.sh \-\-debug start
.TP
Download workshop mods and sync to server:
.B ./Scripts/hub/tmod-control.sh workshop download
.br
.B ./Scripts/hub/tmod-control.sh workshop sync
.TP
Enable a mod by name:
.B ./Scripts/hub/tmod-control.sh mods enable CalamityMod
.TP
Queue a Workshop mod by ID:
.B ./Scripts/hub/tmod-control.sh mods add 2824688804
.TP
Take a full backup:
.B ./Scripts/hub/tmod-control.sh backup full
.TP
Run diagnostics:
.B ./Scripts/hub/tmod-control.sh diagnostics
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR screen (1),
.BR steamcmd (1),
.BR bash (1)
.PP
Project repository:
.I https://github.com/appaKappaK/tmodloader-server
.SH AUTHOR
appaKappaK
.SH LICENSE
Apache License 2.0. Modified files must carry a notice stating they were changed.
